UFO
===

UFO is a package for retrieving reported sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects from the [National UFO Reporting Center's website](www.nuforc.org). It has two main goals:

*	To retrieve the most recent UFO sightings in a certain area (e.g., the province of Alberta or state of Texas).

* To summarize (and visualize) the frequencies of reported UFO shapes (e.g., egg, cigar) for a certain area.

The package can be installed by running `devtools::install_github('kurtis14/UFO')`.

### Using UFO - `latest.sightings`

The package includes two functions that accomplish the goals listed above.

`latest.sightings(area, return.rows)` will find the latest reports on the NUFORC website for a specified area. The `area` argument takes a two-letter code (case insensitive), with each province/state/territory in Canada and the USA having a unique code. For example, the reports for British Columbia will be returned by passing 'BC' to `area` (or 'bc', 'Bc', 'bC'). Unfortunately, there is not a full list of all the codes, however, most are quite straightforward (e.g., 'NY' for New York, 'AB' for Alberta, 'WA' for Washington). __*Note:*__ the one special case is "", which will return international sightings.

The `return.rows` argument takes any positive integer. The default will return the 5 most recent sightings. If one wished to retrieve all reported sightings for an area for, perhaps, further summarization, `return.rows` can be set to a large number (i.e., >5000).

This function will return a data.frame containing information on when the sighting occurred, the date it was posted online, the city, the shape of the UFO, the duration observed and a summary of the sighting.


### Using UFO - `sightings.by.shape`

The second function is used to summarize the frequency of reported UFO shapes for an area. `sightings.by.shape` takes two arguments, `area` being the same as above. `print` is used to specify whether the function returns a table of the shape frequencies or a barplot (generated by ggplot2), 'table' and 'plot' respectively. The default for `print` is set to 'plot'. The shapes (i.e., levels of the shape factor) for both the output plot and table are ordered according to frequencies.

-----------------

This package was created as an assignment for [STAT 545A/547M](stat545-ubc.github.io/hw10_package.html). You can find the README file and reflection for this assignment in [my course repository here](https://github.com/STAT545-UBC/zz_kurtis_stewart-coursework/tree/master/homework_assignments/hmw_10).
